# AS-cast: Lock Down the Traffic of Decentralized Content Indexing at the Edge

<i>Keywords: Edge infrastructures, decentralized content indexing, scoped broadcast, logical partitioning protocol</i>

<i>Authors: Adrien Lebre, Brice Nédelec, Alexandre Van Kempen</i>

Although the holy grail to store and manipulate data in Edge
infrastructures is yet to be found, state-of-the-art approaches
demonstrated the relevance of replication strategies that bring
content closer to consumers: The latter enjoy better response time
while the volume of data passing through the network decreases
overall. Unfortunately, locating the closest replica of a specific
content requires indexing every live replica along with its
location. Relying on remote services for such a aim enters in
contradiction with the properties of Edge infrastructures as locating
replicas may effectively take more time than actually downloading
content. At the opposite, maintaining such an index at every node
would prove overly costly in terms of memory and traffic.

In this paper, we propose a decentralized implementation of content
indexing called AS-cast. Using AS-cast, every node only indexes its
closest replica; and all connected nodes with a similar index compose
a partition. AS-cast is (i) efficient, for it uses partitions to lock
down the traffic generated by its operations to relevant nodes, yet it
(ii) guarantees that every node eventually acknowledges its closest
replica despite concurrent operations. Our prototype, implemented on
PeerSim, shows that AS-cast scales well in terms of generated messages
and termination time.  As such, AS-cast can constitute a novel
building block for geo-distributed services in need of efficient
resource sharing in the vicinity of regions.

## Bibtex 

```
@InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-031-22677-9_23,
  author="Lebre, Adrien and N{\'e}delec, Brice and Van Kempen, Alexandre",
  editor="Meng, Weizhi and Lu, Rongxing and Min, Geyong and Vaidya, Jaideep",
  title="AS-cast: Lock Down the Traffic of Decentralized Content Indexing at the Edge",
  booktitle="Algorithms and Architectures for Parallel Processing",
  year="2023",
  publisher="Springer Nature Switzerland",
  address="Cham",
  pages="433--454",
  isbn="978-3-031-22677-9"
}
```
